README.md, before:

# Look4Gold13 - AU-13 Compliance Scanner

> **CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED**
>
> This script and repository are unclassified. However, the **keywords you search for may be sensitive**. The `keywords.txt` file is gitignored to prevent accidental disclosure, but exercise care when choosing search terms — do not include classified or controlled information in your keywords. Once results are generated, the HTML report should be handled according to your organization's data handling policies.

A PowerShell script for monitoring compliance with **NIST SP 800-53 AU-13 (Monitoring for Information Disclosure)**.

AU-13 requires organizations to monitor open-source information and publicly accessible sites for evidence of unauthorized disclosure of organizational information.

## Quick Start

**1. Copy `Look4Gold13.ps1` and set up keywords:**

```powershell
Copy-Item config/keywords.example.txt keywords.txt
# Edit keywords.txt - add your organization-specific search terms
```

**2. Set up tokens:**

```powershell
# Required: GitHub token for code/commit/issue searches
$env:GITHUB_TOKEN = "ghp_xxxx"

# Optional: Ask Sage GenAI token for AI-powered summaries
[System.Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable("GENAI_API_TOKEN", "your-key", "User")
```

**3. Run the scanner:**

```powershell
# Interactive mode - prompts for everything
.\Look4Gold13.ps1

# Silent mode - uses flags and defaults, no prompts
.\Look4Gold13.ps1 -Silent -GitHubToken "ghp_xxxx"
```

## Requirements

- PowerShell 7.0+
- GitHub Personal Access Token (required)
  - Create one at https://github.com/settings/tokens with `public_repo` scope
- Ask Sage GenAI API token (optional, for AI summaries)
  - Get one from Ask Sage: Settings > Account > Manage API Keys

## Usage

### Interactive Mode (default)

Just run the script. It will prompt for everything:

```powershell
.\Look4Gold13.ps1
```

You'll be asked for:
- GitHub token (checks `$env:GITHUB_TOKEN` first)
- GenAI API token (optional, checks `$env:GENAI_API_TOKEN` first)
- Keywords file path
- Days back to search
- Which sources to scan
- Output file path

### Silent Mode

Use the `-Silent` flag with parameters for automated/scheduled runs:

```powershell
# All defaults (30 days, all sources)
.\Look4Gold13.ps1 -Silent -GitHubToken "ghp_xxxx"

# Token from environment variable
$env:GITHUB_TOKEN = "ghp_xxxx"
.\Look4Gold13.ps1 -Silent

# Custom settings
.\Look4Gold13.ps1 -Silent -GitHubToken "ghp_xxxx" -DaysBack 7 -Sources DuckDuckGo,GitHub

# Specify output path
.\Look4Gold13.ps1 -Silent -GitHubToken "ghp_xxxx" -OutputFile "./my-report.html"

# Custom config file
.\Look4Gold13.ps1 -Silent -ConfigFile "./my-config.json"
```

### Parameters

| Parameter | Default | Description |
|---|---|---|
| `-Silent` | off | Skip prompts, use flags/defaults |
| `-GitHubToken` | `$env:GITHUB_TOKEN` | GitHub Personal Access Token (required) |
| `-KeywordFile` | `./keywords.txt` | Path to keywords file |
| `-DaysBack` | 30 | How many days back to search |
| `-Sources` | All | Which sources: `DuckDuckGo`, `Paste`, `GitHub`, `Breach` |
| `-OutputFile` | Auto-generated | Path for HTML report |
| `-ConfigFile` | `config/au13-config.json` | Path to config file |

## Sources Scanned

| Source | Method | Auth Required |
|---|---|---|
| **DuckDuckGo** | HTML lite endpoint with `site:` and `filetype:` dorks | No |
| **Paste Sites** | psbdmp.ws API + DuckDuckGo-indexed paste sites | No |
| **GitHub** | Code, commits, and issues via GitHub Search API | Yes (token) |
| **Breach Info** | DuckDuckGo searches across HIBP and security blogs | No |

> **GitHub Rate Limits:** Even with a personal access token, the GitHub Search API is limited to **30 requests/minute**. The scanner pauses 10 seconds between searches (3 searches per keyword: code, commits, issues). With many keywords, you may still hit rate limits — the script will warn and continue with remaining sources.
>
> **HIBP API:** The Have I Been Pwned API now requires a paid subscription. The scanner searches HIBP via DuckDuckGo instead.

## GenAI Summarization

When a GenAI API token is configured, the scanner sends results **per keyword** to Ask Sage for AI-powered analysis. Each keyword section in the HTML report will include:

- Risk assessment
- Key findings summary
- Recommended actions

The AI summary appears in a blue callout box below each keyword's results in the report.

### Setup

1. Get an API key from [Ask Sage](https://asksage.ai/) (Settings > Account > Manage API Keys)
2. Set the environment variable:
   ```powershell
   [System.Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable("GENAI_API_TOKEN", "your-key", "User")
   # Restart PowerShell after setting User-level env vars
   ```
3. Or just paste it when prompted in interactive mode

Without a token, the scanner runs normally but skips AI summaries.

## Config File

The config file (`config/au13-config.json`) controls GenAI and search settings. Copy the example to get started:

```powershell
Copy-Item config/au13-config.example.json config/au13-config.json
```

### Config Options

```json
{
    "genai": {
        "endpoint": "https://api.genai.army.mil/server/query",
        "tokenEnvVar": "GENAI_API_TOKEN",
        "model": "google-claude-45-sonnet",
        "persona": 5,
        "temperature": 0.7,
        "limit_references": 5,
        "live": 1
    },
    "search": {
        "daysBack": 30,
        "delaySeconds": 2,
        "sources": ["DuckDuckGo", "Paste", "GitHub", "Breach"]
    }
}
```

| Setting | Description |
|---|---|
| `genai.endpoint` | GenAI API URL (change if using a different provider) |
| `genai.tokenEnvVar` | Name of the environment variable holding the API token |
| `genai.model` | Model to use for summarization |
| `genai.persona` | Ask Sage persona ID |
| `genai.temperature` | Response creativity (0.0 = deterministic, 1.0 = creative) |
| `genai.limit_references` | Max references returned by AI |
| `genai.live` | Enable web search in AI responses (1 = on, 0 = off) |
| `search.daysBack` | Default days back for searches |
| `search.delaySeconds` | Delay between DuckDuckGo requests |
| `search.sources` | Default sources to scan |

All settings have built-in defaults. The config file is optional — only include the settings you want to override.

## Output

Results are saved as an **HTML report** with:
- Per-keyword sections showing query, result count, and clickable links
- Severity badges (Critical, High, Medium, Review, Manual-Review)
- Snippet previews for each finding
- AI analysis per keyword (when GenAI token is configured)

Reports are saved to `./Output/AU13_Scan_<timestamp>.html` by default.

## Keywords File

The `keywords.txt` file contains your search terms (one per line). It is **gitignored** to prevent accidental disclosure of sensitive organizational terms.

A starter example with common test phrases is provided at `config/keywords.example.txt`.

```powershell
# Copy the example to get started
Copy-Item config/keywords.example.txt keywords.txt

# Then add your own terms at the bottom
```

## Project Structure

```
Look4Gold13/
├── Look4Gold13.ps1              # Main script (copy this)
├── keywords.txt                 # Your keywords (gitignored)
├── Output/                      # HTML reports (gitignored)
├── config/
│   ├── au13-config.example.json # Config template (copy to au13-config.json)
│   ├── au13-config.json         # Your config (gitignored)
│   └── keywords.example.txt    # Starter keywords with common phrases
└── src/                         # Original module files (reference)
```

Commit message:

Remove HIBP search, add GitHub rate limit retry logic
- Remove standalone HIBP-Search entry (HIBP API requires paid key,
  haveibeenpwned.com still covered in breach blog site searches)
- Add Invoke-GitHubSearch helper with retry logic: checks
  X-RateLimit-Remaining headers, waits for Retry-After on 403,
  retries up to 2 times with backoff before skipping
- Increase delay between GitHub searches from 10s to 12s
- Reduce code search per_page from 20 to 10 (most restrictive endpoint)
- Update README rate limit documentation

https://claude.ai/code/session_015ze49owm3m3RmtsVR4iupf

README.md, after:

# Look4Gold13 - AU-13 Compliance Scanner

> **CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED**
>
> This script and repository are unclassified. However, the **keywords you search for may be sensitive**. The `keywords.txt` file is gitignored to prevent accidental disclosure, but exercise care when choosing search terms — do not include classified or controlled information in your keywords. Once results are generated, the HTML report should be handled according to your organization's data handling policies.

A PowerShell script for monitoring compliance with **NIST SP 800-53 AU-13 (Monitoring for Information Disclosure)**.

AU-13 requires organizations to monitor open-source information and publicly accessible sites for evidence of unauthorized disclosure of organizational information.

## Quick Start

**1. Copy `Look4Gold13.ps1` and set up keywords:**

```powershell
Copy-Item config/keywords.example.txt keywords.txt
# Edit keywords.txt - add your organization-specific search terms
```

**2. Set up tokens:**

```powershell
# Required: GitHub token for code/commit/issue searches
$env:GITHUB_TOKEN = "ghp_xxxx"

# Optional: Ask Sage GenAI token for AI-powered summaries
[System.Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable("GENAI_API_TOKEN", "your-key", "User")
```

**3. Run the scanner:**

```powershell
# Interactive mode - prompts for everything
.\Look4Gold13.ps1

# Silent mode - uses flags and defaults, no prompts
.\Look4Gold13.ps1 -Silent -GitHubToken "ghp_xxxx"
```

## Requirements

- PowerShell 7.0+
- GitHub Personal Access Token (required)
  - Create one at https://github.com/settings/tokens with `public_repo` scope
- Ask Sage GenAI API token (optional, for AI summaries)
  - Get one from Ask Sage: Settings > Account > Manage API Keys

## Usage

### Interactive Mode (default)

Just run the script. It will prompt for everything:

```powershell
.\Look4Gold13.ps1
```

You'll be asked for:
- GitHub token (checks `$env:GITHUB_TOKEN` first)
- GenAI API token (optional, checks `$env:GENAI_API_TOKEN` first)
- Keywords file path
- Days back to search
- Which sources to scan
- Output file path

### Silent Mode

Use the `-Silent` flag with parameters for automated/scheduled runs:

```powershell
# All defaults (30 days, all sources)
.\Look4Gold13.ps1 -Silent -GitHubToken "ghp_xxxx"

# Token from environment variable
$env:GITHUB_TOKEN = "ghp_xxxx"
.\Look4Gold13.ps1 -Silent

# Custom settings
.\Look4Gold13.ps1 -Silent -GitHubToken "ghp_xxxx" -DaysBack 7 -Sources DuckDuckGo,GitHub

# Specify output path
.\Look4Gold13.ps1 -Silent -GitHubToken "ghp_xxxx" -OutputFile "./my-report.html"

# Custom config file
.\Look4Gold13.ps1 -Silent -ConfigFile "./my-config.json"
```

### Parameters

| Parameter | Default | Description |
|---|---|---|
| `-Silent` | off | Skip prompts, use flags/defaults |
| `-GitHubToken` | `$env:GITHUB_TOKEN` | GitHub Personal Access Token (required) |
| `-KeywordFile` | `./keywords.txt` | Path to keywords file |
| `-DaysBack` | 30 | How many days back to search |
| `-Sources` | All | Which sources: `DuckDuckGo`, `Paste`, `GitHub`, `Breach` |
| `-OutputFile` | Auto-generated | Path for HTML report |
| `-ConfigFile` | `config/au13-config.json` | Path to config file |

## Sources Scanned

| Source | Method | Auth Required |
|---|---|---|
| **DuckDuckGo** | HTML lite endpoint with `site:` and `filetype:` dorks | No |
| **Paste Sites** | psbdmp.ws API + DuckDuckGo-indexed paste sites | No |
| **GitHub** | Code, commits, and issues via GitHub Search API | Yes (token) |
| **Breach Info** | DuckDuckGo searches across security/breach blogs | No |

> **GitHub Rate Limits:** The GitHub Search API has strict rate limits, especially for code search (~10 requests/minute). The scanner pauses 12 seconds between searches and automatically retries with backoff when rate limited. With many keywords, you may still hit limits — the script will wait and retry up to 2 times before skipping.

## GenAI Summarization

When a GenAI API token is configured, the scanner sends results **per keyword** to Ask Sage for AI-powered analysis. Each keyword section in the HTML report will include:

- Risk assessment
- Key findings summary
- Recommended actions

The AI summary appears in a blue callout box below each keyword's results in the report.

### Setup

1. Get an API key from [Ask Sage](https://asksage.ai/) (Settings > Account > Manage API Keys)
2. Set the environment variable:
   ```powershell
   [System.Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable("GENAI_API_TOKEN", "your-key", "User")
   # Restart PowerShell after setting User-level env vars
   ```
3. Or just paste it when prompted in interactive mode

Without a token, the scanner runs normally but skips AI summaries.

## Config File

The config file (`config/au13-config.json`) controls GenAI and search settings. Copy the example to get started:

```powershell
Copy-Item config/au13-config.example.json config/au13-config.json
```

### Config Options

```json
{
    "genai": {
        "endpoint": "https://api.genai.army.mil/server/query",
        "tokenEnvVar": "GENAI_API_TOKEN",
        "model": "google-claude-45-sonnet",
        "persona": 5,
        "temperature": 0.7,
        "limit_references": 5,
        "live": 1
    },
    "search": {
        "daysBack": 30,
        "delaySeconds": 2,
        "sources": ["DuckDuckGo", "Paste", "GitHub", "Breach"]
    }
}
```

| Setting | Description |
|---|---|
| `genai.endpoint` | GenAI API URL (change if using a different provider) |
| `genai.tokenEnvVar` | Name of the environment variable holding the API token |
| `genai.model` | Model to use for summarization |
| `genai.persona` | Ask Sage persona ID |
| `genai.temperature` | Response creativity (0.0 = deterministic, 1.0 = creative) |
| `genai.limit_references` | Max references returned by AI |
| `genai.live` | Enable web search in AI responses (1 = on, 0 = off) |
| `search.daysBack` | Default days back for searches |
| `search.delaySeconds` | Delay between DuckDuckGo requests |
| `search.sources` | Default sources to scan |

All settings have built-in defaults. The config file is optional — only include the settings you want to override.

## Output

Results are saved as an **HTML report** with:
- Per-keyword sections showing query, result count, and clickable links
- Severity badges (Critical, High, Medium, Review, Manual-Review)
- Snippet previews for each finding
- AI analysis per keyword (when GenAI token is configured)

Reports are saved to `./Output/AU13_Scan_<timestamp>.html` by default.

## Keywords File

The `keywords.txt` file contains your search terms (one per line). It is **gitignored** to prevent accidental disclosure of sensitive organizational terms.

A starter example with common test phrases is provided at `config/keywords.example.txt`.

```powershell
# Copy the example to get started
Copy-Item config/keywords.example.txt keywords.txt

# Then add your own terms at the bottom
```

## Project Structure

```
Look4Gold13/
├── Look4Gold13.ps1              # Main script (copy this)
├── keywords.txt                 # Your keywords (gitignored)
├── Output/                      # HTML reports (gitignored)
├── config/
│   ├── au13-config.example.json # Config template (copy to au13-config.json)
│   ├── au13-config.json         # Your config (gitignored)
│   └── keywords.example.txt    # Starter keywords with common phrases
└── src/                         # Original module files (reference)
```
